# MODEL1212060001: MODEL1212060001

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1212060001.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1212060001.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Dreyfuss2013 - Genome-Scale Metabolic Model - N.crassa iJDZ836

Genome-scale metabolic model of the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa

This model is described in the article:

[Reconstruction and Validation of a Genome-Scale Metabolic Model for the
Filamentous Fungus Neurospora crassa Using
FARM](http://identifiers.org/doi/10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003126)

Jonathan M. Dreyfuss, Jeremy D. Zucker, Heather M. Hood, Linda R. Ocasio,
Matthew S. Sachs, James E. Galagan

PLoS Computational Biology, 9(7): e1003126.

Abstract:

The filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa played a central role in the
development of twentieth-century genetics, biochemistry and molecular biology,
and continues to serve as a model organism for eukaryotic biology. Here, we
have reconstructed a genome-scale model of its metabolism. This model consists
of 836 metabolic genes, 257 pathways, 6 cellular compartments, and is
supported by extensive manual curation of 491 literature citations. To aid our
reconstruction, we developed three optimization-based algorithms, which
together comprise Fast Automated Reconstruction of Metabolism (FARM). These
algorithms are: LInear MEtabolite Dilution Flux Balance Analysis (limed-FBA),
which predicts flux while linearly accounting for metabolite dilution; One-
step functional Pruning (OnePrune), which removes blocked reactions with a
single compact linear program; and Consistent Reproduction Of growth/no-growth
Phenotype (CROP), which reconciles differences between in silico and
experimental gene essentiality faster than previous approaches. Against an
independent test set of more than 300 essential/non-essential genes that were
not used to train the model, the model displays 93% sensitivity and
specificity. We also used the model to simulate the biochemical genetics
experiments originally performed on Neurospora by comprehensively predicting
nutrient rescue of essential genes and synthetic lethal interactions, and we
provide detailed pathway-based mechanistic explanations of our predictions.
Our model provides a reliable computational framework for the integration and
interpretation of ongoing experimental efforts in Neurospora, and we
anticipate that our methods will substantially reduce the manual effort
required to develop high-quality genome-scale metabolic models for other
organisms.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1212060001](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1212060001) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


